# SI-GuidedProject-337165-1665737662
Plant seedling classification using IBM Watson
Agriculture is vital for human survival and remains a major driver of several economies around the world; more so in underdeveloped and developing economies. With increasing demand for food and cash crops, due to a growing global population and the challenges posed by climate change, there is a pressing need to increase farm outputs while incurring minimal costs. One major reason for reduction in crop yield is weed invasion on farmlands. Weeds generally have no useful value in terms of food, nutrition or medicine yet they have accelerated growth and parasitically compete with actual crops for nutrients and space. Inef?cient processes such as hand weeding has led to signi?cant losses and increasing costs due to manual labor. Plants continue to serve as a source of food and oxygen for all life on earth. In continents like Africa, where agriculture is predominant, proper automation of the farming process would help optimize crop yield and ensure continuous productivity and sustainability. In recent times, the state of agriculture and the amount of work people need to put in to check if plants/food is growing correctly is phenomenal, because it is 2019 and workers still need to organize and recognize the difference between different plants and weeds. People who are working in the agriculture field still have to have the ability to sort and recognize different plants and weeds, which does take a lot of time and a lot of effort in the long term.

This is where Artificial Intelligence can actually help benefit those workers, as the time and energy to identify plant seedlings will be much shortened. The ability to do so effectively can mean better crop yields and in the long term will result in better care for the environment. As by identifying the difference among the plants and weeds in a timely manner where it is highly accurate can positively impact agriculture.

video Demonstration:
https://drive.google.com/file/d/1b3k9zF78TDbdxG6sjpgor2dTXptWUMfg/view?usp=share_link
